# [PLaMo-1B: State-of-the-art large language model useful on a variety of language understanding and generation tasks](https://aihub.qualcomm.com/models/plamo_1b)

PLaMo-1B is the first small language model (SLM) in the PLaMo™ Lite series from Preferred Networks (PFN), designed to power AI applications for edge devices including mobile, automotive, and robots across various industrial sectors. This model builds on the advancements of PLaMo-100B, a 100-billion parameter large language model (LLM) developed from the ground up by PFN’s subsidiary Preferred Elements (PFE). Leveraging high-quality Japanese and English text data generated by PLaMo-100B, PLaMo-1B has been pre-trained on a total of 4 trillion tokens. As a result, it delivers exceptional performance in Japanese benchmarks, outperforming other SLMs with similar parameter sizes. In evaluations such as Jaster 0-shot and 4-shot, PLaMo-1B has demonstrated performance on par with larger LLMs, making it a highly efficient solution for edge-based AI tasks.

This repository contains scripts for optimized on-device
export suitable to run on Qualcomm® devices. More details on model performance
accross various devices, can be found [here](https://aihub.qualcomm.com/models/plamo_1b).

[Sign up](https://myaccount.qualcomm.com/signup) to start using Qualcomm AI Hub and run these models on a hosted Qualcomm® device.

## Deploying PLaMo-1B on-device

Please follow the [LLM on-device deployment](https://github.com/quic/ai-hub-apps/tree/main/tutorials/llm_on_genie) tutorial.






## Community
* Join [our AI Hub Slack community](https://aihub.qualcomm.com/community/slack) to collaborate, post questions and learn more about on-device AI.
* For questions or feedback please [reach out to us](mailto:ai-hub-support@qti.qualcomm.com).


## Usage and Limitations

This model may not be used for or in connection with any of the following applications:

- Accessing essential private and public services and benefits;
- Administration of justice and democratic processes;
- Assessing or recognizing the emotional state of a person;
- Biometric and biometrics-based systems, including categorization of persons based on sensitive characteristics;
- Education and vocational training;
- Employment and workers management;
- Exploitation of the vulnerabilities of persons resulting in harmful behavior;
- General purpose social scoring;
- Law enforcement;
- Management and operation of critical infrastructure;
- Migration, asylum and border control management;
- Predictive policing;
- Real-time remote biometric identification in public spaces;
- Recommender systems of social media platforms;
- Scraping of facial images (from the internet or otherwise); and/or
- Subliminal manipulation
